---
title: MOLB 5845 Graduate Project
author: Gwen Hummel
date: December 9, 2019
---

1. Assess read quality: PedCon1_R1 sequence
This sequence contains 151bp, with 0 sequences flagged as poor quality. Utilizing the Per base sequence quality graphic in the FastQC Report, it is apparent that the majority of bases are of a high quality, with a small amount of sequence quality suffering toward the end of the read. This indicates that little trimming may be needed. 
Utilizing the Per sequence quality score graphic, which assesses the average quality per read, we can see that the average quality of our forward read remains high, with a PHRED score of roughly 36. The Per base sequence content graphics are where our FastQC summary first generated a red x. This is because there are many regions of the graphic where nucleotide content exceeds 25%, indicating that nucleotides have not been represented evenly throughout our sample. In this forward read, these discrepancies occur at the beginning and end of the read. The summary of the FastQC file also generated a red x at the Per sequence GC content graph, where we can see that the average GC content of this read was lower than the average theoretical distribution. The FastQC report also generated a red x failure notification at the Sequence Duplication Levels graph, indicating that over 50% of the sequence is non-unique. However, the report only generated 5 non-unique sequences.

PedCon1_R2 sequence: This sequence contains 151bp with 0 sequences flagged as poor quality. Following the Per base sequence quality graphic in the FastQC report, we can see that the end of this reverse sequence is not of the same quality as the forward sequence. While the read quality remains at a high level, the final 1/4 of the sequence drops in quality compared to the forward read. This is to be expected of a reverse read. However, like our forward sequence, we can determine that the average quality of the read is high, based on the Per sequence quality scores graphic, with a PHRED score of roughly 36. Like the forward read, the Per base sequence content graphic was the first summary measure to be indicated as a failure with a red x. This is because several nucleotides are indicated to have a representation greater than 25%, both at the beginning and end of the read, indcating that there may be some sort of bias in the library preparation or the sequencing method. Unlike the forward read, the Per sequence GC content graphic of the reverse read is only indicated with a yellow warning in the summary. This is because the GC content is far more centered on the average distribution curve, even if it does not fit the normal distribution perfectly. The Sequence Duplication Levels graphic is similar to the forward read, and is also marked as a failure , indicating the over 50% of the sequence is non-unique. Unlike the forward read, the reverse read summary identified 18 overrepresented reads, possibly accounting for the lower quality of the reverse read. 

2. 
